pages/archiving/setup.rst, before:

*****
Setup
*****

The archive plugin is a commercial Graylog feature that can be installed in
addition to the Graylog open source server.

Installation
============

Please see the :doc:`Graylog Enterprise setup page </pages/enterprise/setup>` for details on how to install
the Archive plugin.

Configuration
=============

The archive plugin can be configured via the Graylog web interface and does
not need any changes in the Graylog server configuration file.

In the web interface menu navigate to "System/Archives" and click "Configuration"
to adjust the configuration.

.. image:: /images/archiving-setup-config.png

Archive Options
---------------

There are several configuration options to configure the archive plugin.

.. list-table:: Configuration Options
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 20

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - Backend
      - Backend on the **master** node where the archive files will be stored.
    * - Max Segment Size
      - Maximum size (in *bytes*) of archive segment files.
    * - Compression Type
      - Compression type that will be used to compress the archives.
    * - Checksum Type
      - Checksum algorithm that is used to calculate the checksum for archives.
    * - Restore index batch size
      - Elasticsearch batch size when restoring archive files.
    * - Streams to archive
      - Streams that should be included in the archive.

.. _archive-config-option-backend:

Backend
^^^^^^^

The archived indices will be stored in a backend. A backend that stores the data in ``/tmp/graylog-archive`` is created
when the server starts for the first time but you can create a new backend if you want to store the data in a different
path.

Max Segment Size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When archiving an index, the archive job writes the data into segments.
The *Max Segment Size* setting sets the size limit for each of these data
segments.

This allows control over the file size of the segment files to make it
possible to process them with tools which have a size limit for files.

Once the size limit is reached, a new segment file will be started.

Example::

   /path/to/archive/
     graylog_201/
       archive-metadata.json
       archive-segment-0.gz
       archive-segment-1.gz
       archive-segment-2.gz

.. _archive-config-option-compression-type:

Compression Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Archives will be compressed with gzip by default. This option can be changed to use a different compression type.

The selected compression type has a big impact on the time it takes to archive an index. Gzip for example is pretty
slow but has a great compression rate. Snappy and LZ4 are way faster but the archives will be bigger.

Here is a comparison between the available compression algorithms with test data.

.. list-table:: Compression Type Comparison
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 5 5 15

    * - Type
      - Index Size
      - Archive Size
      - Duration
    * - gzip
      - 1 GB
      - 134 MB
      - 15 minutes, 23 seconds
    * - Snappy
      - 1 GB
      - 291 MB
      - 2 minutes, 31 seconds
    * - LZ4
      - 1 GB
      - 266 MB
      - 2 minutes, 25 seconds

.. note:: Results with your data may vary! Make sure to test the different compression types
          to find the one that is best for your data.


.. _archive-config-option-checksum-type:

Checksum Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When writing archives Graylog computes a CRC32 checksum over the files. This option can be changed to use a different checksum algorithm.

The type of checksum depends on the use case. CRC32 and MD5 are quick to compute and a reasonable choice to be able to detect damaged files, but neither is suitable as protection against malicious changes in the files.
Graylog also supports using SHA-1 or SHA-256 checksums which can be used to make sure the files were not modified, as they are cryptographic hashes.

The best choice of checksum types depends on whether the necessary system tools are installed to compute them later (not all systems come with a SHA-256 utility for example), speed of checksum calculation for larger files as well as the security considerations.

.. _archive-config-option-restore-batch-size:

Restore Index Batch Size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This setting controls the batch size for re-indexing archive data into
Elasticsearch. When set to ``1000``, the restore job will re-index the
archived data in document batches of 1000.

You can use this setting to control the speed of the restore process and also
how much load it will generate on the Elasticsearch cluster. The **higher**
the batch size, the **faster** the restore will progress and the **more** load
will be put on your Elasticsearch cluster in addition to the normal message
processing.

Make sure to tune this **carefully** to avoid any negative impact on your
message indexing throughput and search speed!

.. _archive-config-option-streams-to-archive:

Streams To Archive
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This option can be used to select which streams should be included in the
archive. With this you are able to archive only your important data instead
of archiving everything that is arriving in Graylog.

.. note:: New streams will be archived automatically. If you create a new stream
          and don't want it to be archived, you have to disable it in this
          configuration dialog.

.. _archive-config-backends:

Backends
--------

A backend can be used to store the archived data. For now, we only support a single file system backend type.

File System
^^^^^^^^^^^

The archived indices will be stored in the *Output base path* directory. This
directory **needs to exist and be writable for the Graylog server process** so the files
can be stored.

.. note:: Only the **master** node needs access to the *Output base path* directory because the archiving process runs on the master node.

We recommend to put the *Output base path* directory onto a **separate disk or partition** to avoid
any negative impact on the message processing should the archiving fill up
the disk.

.. image:: /images/archiving-setup-backend-new.png

.. list-table:: Configuration Options
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 20

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - Title
      - A simple title to identify the backend.
    * - Description
      - Longer description for the backend.
    * - Output base path
      - Directory path where the archive files should be stored.

**Output base path**

The output base path can either be a simple directory path string or a template string to build dynamic paths.

You could use a template string to store the archive data in a directory tree that is based on the archival date.

Example::

    # Template
    /data/graylog-archive/${year}/${month}/${day}

    # Result
    /data/graylog-archive/2017/04/01/graylog_0

.. list-table:: Available Template Variables
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 20

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - ``${year}``
      - Archival date year. (e.g. "2017")
    * - ``${month}``
      - Archival date month. (e.g "04")
    * - ``${day}``
      - Archival date day. (e.g. "01")
    * - ``${hour}``
      - Archival date hour. (e.g. "23")
    * - ``${minute}``
      - Archival date minute. (e.g. "24")
    * - ``${second}``
      - Archival date second. (e.g. "59")
    * - ``${index-name}``
      - Name of the archived index. (e.g. "graylog_0")


.. _archive-config-index-retention:

Index Retention
---------------

Graylog is using configurable index retention strategies to delete old
indices. By default indices can be *closed* or *deleted* if you have more
than the configured limit.

The archive plugin offers a new index retention strategy that you can configure
to automatically archive an index before closing or deleting it.

Index retention strategies can be configured in the system menu under
"System/Indices". Select an index set and click "Edit" to change the index rotation
and retention strategies.

.. image:: /images/archiving-setup-index-retention-config.png

As with the regular index retention strategies, you can configure a max
number of Elasticsearch indices. Once there are more indices than the
configured limit, the oldest ones will be archived into the backend and
then closed or deleted. You can also decide to not do anything (*NONE*) after
archiving an index. In that case **no cleanup of old indices will happen**
and you have to take care of that yourself!

Commit message:

added warning about lz4
added a warning about lz4 that is not compatible with the cli tools.

This need to be cherry-picked to 2.4 and 3.0 branch

FIX https://github.com/Graylog2/graylog-plugin-archive/issues/117

pages/archiving/setup.rst, after:

*****
Setup
*****

The archive plugin is a commercial Graylog feature that can be installed in
addition to the Graylog open source server.

Installation
============

Please see the :doc:`Graylog Enterprise setup page </pages/enterprise/setup>` for details on how to install
the Archive plugin.

Configuration
=============

The archive plugin can be configured via the Graylog web interface and does
not need any changes in the Graylog server configuration file.

In the web interface menu navigate to "System/Archives" and click "Configuration"
to adjust the configuration.

.. image:: /images/archiving-setup-config.png

Archive Options
---------------

There are several configuration options to configure the archive plugin.

.. list-table:: Configuration Options
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 20

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - Backend
      - Backend on the **master** node where the archive files will be stored.
    * - Max Segment Size
      - Maximum size (in *bytes*) of archive segment files.
    * - Compression Type
      - Compression type that will be used to compress the archives.
    * - Checksum Type
      - Checksum algorithm that is used to calculate the checksum for archives.
    * - Restore index batch size
      - Elasticsearch batch size when restoring archive files.
    * - Streams to archive
      - Streams that should be included in the archive.

.. _archive-config-option-backend:

Backend
^^^^^^^

The archived indices will be stored in a backend. A backend that stores the data in ``/tmp/graylog-archive`` is created
when the server starts for the first time but you can create a new backend if you want to store the data in a different
path.

Max Segment Size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When archiving an index, the archive job writes the data into segments.
The *Max Segment Size* setting sets the size limit for each of these data
segments.

This allows control over the file size of the segment files to make it
possible to process them with tools which have a size limit for files.

Once the size limit is reached, a new segment file will be started.

Example::

   /path/to/archive/
     graylog_201/
       archive-metadata.json
       archive-segment-0.gz
       archive-segment-1.gz
       archive-segment-2.gz

.. _archive-config-option-compression-type:

Compression Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Archives will be compressed with gzip by default. This option can be changed to use a different compression type.

The selected compression type has a big impact on the time it takes to archive an index. Gzip for example is pretty
slow but has a great compression rate. Snappy and LZ4 are way faster but the archives will be bigger.

Here is a comparison between the available compression algorithms with test data.

.. list-table:: Compression Type Comparison
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 5 5 15

    * - Type
      - Index Size
      - Archive Size
      - Duration
    * - gzip
      - 1 GB
      - 134 MB
      - 15 minutes, 23 seconds
    * - Snappy
      - 1 GB
      - 291 MB
      - 2 minutes, 31 seconds
    * - LZ4
      - 1 GB
      - 266 MB
      - 2 minutes, 25 seconds

.. note:: Results with your data may vary! Make sure to test the different compression types
          to find the one that is best for your data.

.. warning:: The current implementation of lz4 is not compatible with the lz4 cli tools. Decompress the lz4 archives on the command line is not possible.


.. _archive-config-option-checksum-type:

Checksum Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When writing archives Graylog computes a CRC32 checksum over the files. This option can be changed to use a different checksum algorithm.

The type of checksum depends on the use case. CRC32 and MD5 are quick to compute and a reasonable choice to be able to detect damaged files, but neither is suitable as protection against malicious changes in the files.
Graylog also supports using SHA-1 or SHA-256 checksums which can be used to make sure the files were not modified, as they are cryptographic hashes.

The best choice of checksum types depends on whether the necessary system tools are installed to compute them later (not all systems come with a SHA-256 utility for example), speed of checksum calculation for larger files as well as the security considerations.

.. _archive-config-option-restore-batch-size:

Restore Index Batch Size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This setting controls the batch size for re-indexing archive data into
Elasticsearch. When set to ``1000``, the restore job will re-index the
archived data in document batches of 1000.

You can use this setting to control the speed of the restore process and also
how much load it will generate on the Elasticsearch cluster. The **higher**
the batch size, the **faster** the restore will progress and the **more** load
will be put on your Elasticsearch cluster in addition to the normal message
processing.

Make sure to tune this **carefully** to avoid any negative impact on your
message indexing throughput and search speed!

.. _archive-config-option-streams-to-archive:

Streams To Archive
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This option can be used to select which streams should be included in the
archive. With this you are able to archive only your important data instead
of archiving everything that is arriving in Graylog.

.. note:: New streams will be archived automatically. If you create a new stream
          and don't want it to be archived, you have to disable it in this
          configuration dialog.

.. _archive-config-backends:

Backends
--------

A backend can be used to store the archived data. For now, we only support a single file system backend type.

File System
^^^^^^^^^^^

The archived indices will be stored in the *Output base path* directory. This
directory **needs to exist and be writable for the Graylog server process** so the files
can be stored.

.. note:: Only the **master** node needs access to the *Output base path* directory because the archiving process runs on the master node.

We recommend to put the *Output base path* directory onto a **separate disk or partition** to avoid
any negative impact on the message processing should the archiving fill up
the disk.

.. image:: /images/archiving-setup-backend-new.png

.. list-table:: Configuration Options
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 20

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - Title
      - A simple title to identify the backend.
    * - Description
      - Longer description for the backend.
    * - Output base path
      - Directory path where the archive files should be stored.

**Output base path**

The output base path can either be a simple directory path string or a template string to build dynamic paths.

You could use a template string to store the archive data in a directory tree that is based on the archival date.

Example::

    # Template
    /data/graylog-archive/${year}/${month}/${day}

    # Result
    /data/graylog-archive/2017/04/01/graylog_0

.. list-table:: Available Template Variables
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 7 20

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - ``${year}``
      - Archival date year. (e.g. "2017")
    * - ``${month}``
      - Archival date month. (e.g "04")
    * - ``${day}``
      - Archival date day. (e.g. "01")
    * - ``${hour}``
      - Archival date hour. (e.g. "23")
    * - ``${minute}``
      - Archival date minute. (e.g. "24")
    * - ``${second}``
      - Archival date second. (e.g. "59")
    * - ``${index-name}``
      - Name of the archived index. (e.g. "graylog_0")


.. _archive-config-index-retention:

Index Retention
---------------

Graylog is using configurable index retention strategies to delete old
indices. By default indices can be *closed* or *deleted* if you have more
than the configured limit.

The archive plugin offers a new index retention strategy that you can configure
to automatically archive an index before closing or deleting it.

Index retention strategies can be configured in the system menu under
"System/Indices". Select an index set and click "Edit" to change the index rotation
and retention strategies.

.. image:: /images/archiving-setup-index-retention-config.png

As with the regular index retention strategies, you can configure a max
number of Elasticsearch indices. Once there are more indices than the
configured limit, the oldest ones will be archived into the backend and
then closed or deleted. You can also decide to not do anything (*NONE*) after
archiving an index. In that case **no cleanup of old indices will happen**
and you have to take care of that yourself!
